# Java-Application
## Introduction:
### JavaFX is a software platform for creating and delivering desktop applications, as well as rich Internet applications (RIAs) that can run across a wide variety of devices. 
## The elements of JavaFX that I have used in the development are:
1. JavaFX Layouts:
  1. Gridpane: ThisLayout pane allows us to add the multiple nodes in multiple rows and columns. It is seen as a flexible grid of rows and columns where nodes can be placed in any cell of the grid.
2. JavaFX UI:
  1. Label: Label is a component that is used to define a simple text on the screen. Typically, a label is placed with the node, it describes.
  2. Button: Button is a component that controls the function of the application.
  3. Text Field: It is basically used to get the input from the user in the form of text.
  4. Password Field: It is used to get the user's password. Whatever is typed in the password field is not shown on the screen to anyone.
  5. Menu: JavaFX provides a Menu class to implement menus. Menu is the main component of any application.
3. JavaFX CSS: 
  1. Css: This style sheet defines the default style rules for the root node and UI controls.
4. JavaFX Text:
  1. Text: This class provides various methods to alter various properties of the text. We just need to instantiate this class to implement text in our application.
5. JavaFX Event Handling:
  1. Event Handling: Event Handlers and filters contains application logic to process an event. A node can be registered to more than one Event Filters. JavaFX facilitates us to use the Event Handlers to handle the events generated by Keyboard Actions, Mouse Actions, and many more source nodes.

### The Editor I have used for this development: *Microsoft Visual Code Editor*
### Used Java JDK, Java JFX libraries, imported in VS code.
### Extensions:
1. Language Support for Java(TM) by Red Hat
2. Project Manager for Java by Microsoft
3. Visual Studio IntelliCode by Microsoft 

## Menu events:
1. Clear Messages: It is erase all messages and information present in the form of labels.
2. Clear Forms: It will make the text field and password fields empty for new registration.
3. Exit Portal: To exit the portal.
4. Save credentials: To save credentials, just to display the username and password at that instant, can be of any count of pair.
5. Cut: This has two options, cut username and cut password. It will function same as name suggests.
6. Copy: This has two options, copy username and copy password. It will function same as name suggests.
7. Paste: This has two options, paste in username text field and paste in password text field. It will function same as name suggests.
## Controls:
1. Submit: This button will check for the Username and Password typed by User, and displays the particular warning and messages for the User to go in right path. 

